# 4620_libpd-drum-sequencer

For my final project, I primarily wanted to focus on sound generation. I began by creating a generative drum sequencer. I wrote the code so that every four measures, a new beat is generated. Each drum sound has a corresponding array of probabilities that will determine whether a step should have a bang or not. This creates a random drum pattern that regenerates every few times it plays. Then, to create a melody, I created a pure data patch that creates ambient noise. I use code in unity to randomly select a frequency each time a new note should play for the ambient melody. I also created a pure data patch that generates bass notes and uses code in unity to change the bass note every 4 measures. 
For the animation, I created 8 cubes, each bigger than the last, for each of the 8 possible notes for the ambient melody. When the random note for the ambient melody is chosen, its corresponding cube turns light pink. For the bass note animation, I have a sphere that gradually increases in size when one note is playing, then switches colors and gradually decreases in size while the other note is playing. Finally, for the generative drum sequencer, I created 8 cubes for each of the 4 drum sounds that border the larger middle cube associated with the melody. Each cube corresponds to a step in the drum sequence, and when its corresponding sound and step are played, the cube turns yellow. 
Overall, I think that I have learned a lot about Pure Data and Unity in the process of making this final composition. I really enjoyed spending my time on creating the generative drum sequencer and trying to figure out how to create a similar randomized sound for the ambient melody. Although I came into this class knowing very little about music as a whole, I feel that I have a much better understanding and my final composition is reflective of that. Throughout the semester, I have enjoyed brainstorming new ways to connect my music to the animations in Unity and am proud of what I have created for my final composition. 
